# Flight Delays & Cost Analysis

Analysing a dataset of flights that contain ~600,000 rows and 21 collumns. Then calculating the performance metrics regarding the amount of delays that occur in one month. first, use SQL querries in pgAdmin to create a table called `real_flight` specify the attributes. Then import the csv file and load the data, later pull the data using psycopg2 and save it into a pandas DataFrame. Using SQL queries I select the rows for flights that were not diverted nor cancelled, then I cleaned the data using pandas and dropping any NaN values in either `ARR_DEL15` or `DEP_DEL15`. Furthermore, I generate the ratio for airline using pandas and numpy to check where either `ARR_DEL15` or `DEP_DEL15` are `True` we mark it as `1`, however if both are `False` we mark it as `0`. Next I create a new dataframe that groups each airline (`OP_UNIQUE_CARRIER`) into groups and calculates the ratio of delays. The average result of 1's and 0's display a ratio that represent how many delayed flights and average result of 0's are values that are non-delayed flights. Lastly, I create another dataframe that groups each origin airport (`ORIGIN_AIRPORT_ID`) into groups and calculates the ratio of delays for each airline. Again the results of 1's and 0's display a ratio of the number of delayed flights and 0's non-delayed flights. Then I Sorted this delay ratio from highest to lowest, and saved this dataframe as a `csv` file labeled `delayed_airlines.csv` and `delayed_airports.csv`.